This article was downloaded by: [113.54.148.187] On: 04 February 2024, At: 01:50 Publisher: Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS) INFORMS is located in Maryland, USA  

# Manufacturing & Service Operations Management  

Publication details, including instructions for authors and subscription information: tp://pubsonline.informs.org  

# upply Risk Mitigation in a Decentralized Supply Chain: ricing Postponement or Payment Postponement?  

n Geng, Xiaomeng Guo, Guang Xiao, Nan Yang  

# To cite this article:  

Xin Geng, Xiaomeng Guo, Guang Xiao, Nan Yang (2023) Supply Risk Mitigation in a Decentralized Supply Chain: Pricing Postponement or Payment Postponement?. Manufacturing & Service Operations Management  

Published online in Articles in Advance 20 Oct 2023  

https://doi.org/10.1287/msom.2022.0198  

# Full terms and conditions of use: https://pubsonline.informs.org/Publications/Librarians-Portal/PubsOnLine-Terms-an Conditions  

This article may be used only for the purposes of research, teaching, and/or private study. Commercial use or systematic downloading (by robots or other automatic processes) is prohibited without explicit Publisher approval, unless otherwise noted. For more information, contact permissions@informs.org.  

The Publisher does not warrant or guarantee the article’s accuracy, completeness, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or non-infringement. Descriptions of, or references to, products or publications, or inclusion of an advertisement in this article, neither constitutes nor implies a guarantee, endorsement, or support of claims made of that product, publication, or service.  

Copyright © 2023, INFORMS  

Please scroll down for article—it is on subsequent pages  

# informs.  

With 12,500 members from nearly 90 countries, INFORMS is the largest international association of operations research (O.R.) and analytics professionals and students. INFORMS provides unique networking and learning opportunities for individual professionals, and organizations of all types and sizes, to better understand and use O.R. and analytics tools and methods to transform strategic visions and achieve better outcomes.  

For more information on INFORMS, its publications, membership, or meetings visit http://www.informs.org  

# Supply Risk Mitigation in a Decentralized Supply Chain: Pricing Postponement or Payment Postponement?  

Xin Geng,a Xiaomeng Guo,b Guang Xiao,b Nan Yanga,\*  

a Miami Herbert Business School, University of Miami, Coral Gables, Florida 33146; b Logistics and Maritime Studies, Faculty of Business, Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China   
\*Corresponding author   
Contact: xgeng@bus.miami.edu, https:/ orcid.org/0000-0002-8206-4002 (XinG); xiaomeng.guo@polyu.edu.hk,   
$\textcircled{1}$ https:/ orcid.org/0000-0002-1545-7834 (XiaG); guang.xiao@polyu.edu.hk, $\textcircled{1}$ https:/ orcid.org/0000-0003-1256-2599 (GX); nyang@bus.miami.edu, $\textcircled{1}$ https:/ orcid.org/0000-0003-3100-7873 (NY)  

Received: May 2, 2022   
Revised: July 9, 2023   
Accepted: September 4, 2023   
Published Online in Articles in Advance:   
October 20, 2023  

https://doi.org/10.1287/msom.2022.0198  

Copyright: $\circledcirc$ 2023 INFORMS  

# 结构：R的策略偏好两种延迟策略之间的关系——分别两种策略对供应链利润的影响  

Abstract. Problem definition: In a multistage model of a bilateral supply chain, we study two postponement strategies that the downstream retailer may adopt to mitigate the sup­ ply yield risk originating from the upstream production process. The retailer could either postpone the procurement payment until after the yield is realized and pay only for the delivered amount; postpone the pricing decision to better utilize the available supply; or do both. Although both strategies have been separately studied in literature, there is little research on their combined effect and system-wide implications in a decentralized setting. Methodology/results: Taking a game-theoretic approach, we formulate a Stackelberg game and solve for the equilibrium in four scenarios, respectively, in which the retailer uses differ­ ent combinations of the postponement strategies. There are three main findings. First, when the production cost is low and the yield loss is highly likely, the retailer never strictly bene­ fits from either postponement strategy; with relatively high production cost, the retailer is more likely to adopt payment, rather than pricing, postponement. Second, we uncover a sit­ uation where postponing payment and postponing pricing are strategic complements for the retailer. That is, the use of one strategy may increase the benefit of using the other. Third, we identify conditions under which the postponement strategies can be Pareto optimal to the entire supply chain, making the firms’ profits and the consumer surplus simultaneously higher. Managerial implications: These results can be applied in many practical settings to provide guidance for firms to better design the procurement contract and properly use mar­ keting instrument (pricing) to effectively mitigate supply risk and increase profit.  

Funding: G. Xiao acknowledges financial support from the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong [General Research Fund Grant PolyU 15503920]. X. Guo acknowledges the support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China [Grant 72293564/72293560]. Supplemental Material: The online appendix is available at https:/ doi.org/10.1287/msom.2022.0198.  

Keywords: supply risk $\cdot$ random production yield $\cdot$ postponement $\cdot$ pricing $\cdot$ price-only contract  

# 1. Introduction  

Outsourcing has become a trending and prevailing capacity-planning strategy for many firms. In particular, firms outsource to cut costs, increase flexibility, enhance in-house efficiency, and ultimately build up competitive advantage in today’s global market. Despite the appar­ ent economic and strategic benefit, outsourcing can expose firms to various risks that arise externally; among others, supply risk stands out as one of the most notable and requires careful management. As documented by Gyorey et al. (2010), in responding to a McKinsey global survey, about two-thirds of the participating executives reported that supply uncertainty was listed among the top three most significant risks to combat against. Com­ monly seen across industries, the production yield risk is considered as a major source of supply risk. In agri­ business, the crop yield per farmed acre exhibits inherent variability and is usually subject to many unpredict­ able factors, such as weather conditions, diseases infec­ tions, and seed mortality rate (Kouvelis 2015). In vaccine manufacturing, the production yield is subject to the sur­ vival rate of the viral strains due to the variable growing conditions (Chick et al. 2008). In the above examples, the uncertain yield has been a primary planning concern for every organization along the value chain.  

Facing the random yield in the upstream production process, how should the downstream outsourcing firm manage and mitigate the risk? One practical way is to contract with the supplier to reduce the risk burden. Interestingly, achieving risk reduction does not always require a sophisticated contract. Rather, a simple priceonly contract would be sufficient if a certain payment scheme is stipulated. For example, in agriculture supply chains of crops, such as cotton, soybeans, and potatoes, the downstream crop processors often contract with the upstream farmers in either “planted land acreage agreement”—that is, the payment is based on the total planted land acreage, and the producers are required to deliver all available crops upon harvest—or “delivered output agreement”—that is, the payment is contingent upon final delivered outputs, rather than the planted land acreage (see Scott 2003, p. 54). Hence, the retailer can either pay for the ordered quantity (pay-by-order scheme) or pay for the actual delivered output after yield realization (pay-by-delivery scheme). In fact, the two payment schemes are quite popular in agricultural and livestock markets: Two types of contracts discussed in MacDonald et al. (2004), “production contract” and “marketing contract,” correspond to pay-by-order sche­ mes and pay-by-delivery schemes, respectively. In addi­ tion, both payment schemes are also widely adopted in high-tech and biotech industries with significant supply yield risks; for example, buyers in such industries may pay for either the startup production volume or the final delivered output (see, e.g., Tang and Kouvelis 2011 for detailed discussions). Note that, although the unit whole­ sale price is usually set by the supplier before the yield is known, the retailer can have the decision right (or at least negotiation power) on which payment scheme to write in the contract upfront. Therefore, by using the pay-bydelivery scheme, the retailer can make the upstream sup­ plier absorb part of the supply risk.  

In addition to using contracts, the downstream retailer may adopt different pricing strategies to manage the yield risk. Endowed with pricing power, the retailer may either decide the price before production (ex ante pricing) or postpone the decision until after the yield is realized (responsive pricing). Both pricing schemes are widely observed in practice. Again, in agricultural and livestock business, according to Etienne et al. (2017), many agriproducers either presell their processed products before production takes place (hence, the input from the sup­ plier is unknown yet) or price responsively after the yield is observed to make the best use of available supply. Similarly, in the consumer electronic industry, Sinofsky (2019) documents that some companies may choose to preannounce the prices of their products without mak­ ing the products available immediately, whereas others may delay announcing such information until compo­ nent supply risk is resolved and final products are ready for selling. Therefore, whereas an ex ante determined price can help maintain the stability of the output price, responsive pricing offers the retailer an opportunity to adjust the market price and alleviate the detrimental impact of the yield shortage on the end market.  

Whereas using different payment schemes deals with yield uncertainty from the supply side, using different pricing schemes addresses the same issue from the demand side. In practice, therefore, it is natural for firms to simultaneously consider the two means together as potential yield risk-mitigation tools. One notable example in this regard is from the orange juice industry. Valencia oranges, a sweet orange cultivar perfect for making orange juice, are grown in South Florida and Brazil and sold to orange juice companies. In a general supply contract be­ tween the seller and the buyer of Valencia oranges, we can see the use of different payment schemes, such as production contract (analogue to pay-by-order) and box contract (analogue to pay-by-delivery). On the demand side, the orange juice companies may raise the retail price when extreme weather and citrus diseases plague the orange crop and hurt the production yield.2 More specifi­ cally, consider Tropicana, a unit of PepsiCo, Inc., sourcing Valencia oranges from its supplier Alico, Inc., and selling the processed orange juice to consumers. According to the purchase contract3 and Alico’s reporting,4 Tropicana buys the oranges on a pound solids basis, which is analogue to the pay-by-delivery payment scheme. On the other hand, when the crop size is unexpectedly disappointing due to bad weather, such as a winter freeze, Tropicana usually chooses to directly raise the retail price (or indirectly downsize the juice jug) to cope with the upstream yield shortage.  

Focusing on the downstream retailer in a two-tier sup­ ply chain setup, we study the above two risk-mitigation strategies, both of which are related to the timing of events and emphasize the notion of postponement: A payby-delivery contract features the payment postpone­ ment, and the responsive pricing scheme postpones the retailer’s pricing decision. Intuitively, both strategies could serve as effective levers for the retailer to combat supply yield uncertainty. However, in a decentralized supply chain setting, the combined effect and interplay of the two strategies are largely unclear. For one thing, because of channel conflicts, the upstream supplier’s res­ ponse to the retailer’s strategies may inflict harm to the latter. For another, the joint effect of the two postpone­ ment strategies is not a simple addition because of the interactions that ripple through the supply chain. Ther fore, to ensure the maximum benefit of using these strate gies, individually or combined, it is critical to understan their strategic implications in a decentralized setting.  

策略用了之后供应商的响应eir­ ，应整链个的供情 d­ 况之系；间？两的者关  

The main purpose of this research is therefore to study the impact of the retailer’s payment- and pricingpostponement strategies on its own profit achievement, as well as the overall channel performance. Based on a Stackelberg game framework, we study four scenarios, depending on the combination of the retailer’s payment and pricing schemes, and solve for the firms’ optimal profits and the consumer welfare in equilibrium. Then, we attempt to answer the following research questions. (1) When should the retailer use what postponement strategy to improve its profit? This is the foremost choice to make for the retailer. (2) How would the use of one strategy influence the effect of using the other? This is to help the retailer understand the interplay between these two strategies. (3) What are the welfare implications of the postponement strategies on the overall channel per­ formance? Knowing the answer to this question could help the retailer persuade other channel members to agree with its choices.  

To answer the first research question, we examine the impact of the postponement strategies on the retailer’s profit. Starting with the benchmark scenario, where no postponement is present, we compare the retailer’s opti­ mal profit among the scenarios where the retailer de­ ploys different combinations of the payment and pricing schemes. On the one hand, we find that, when the sup plier’s production cost is low and the likelihood of yield loss is relatively high, the benchmark scenario is already optimal; that is, the retailer will not strictly benefit from either postponement strategy. If the production cost is high, however, the retailer’s profit will be strictly im­ proved if pricing postponement is used. On the other hand, we establish the retailer’s preference order over various postponement-strategy combinations. Specifi­ cally, with low production cost, the retailer is more likely to postpone payment rather than pricing; however, the retailer prefers the pricing-postponement strategy when the supplier’s production cost increases. Overall, we find that the benefit of pricing postponement for the retailer is growing as the production cost increases because the contingent market price accompanied by low production cost would worsen the double-marginalization problem. Furthermore, the retailer benefits less from postponing payment when the cost increases because the supplier simply will not inflate production, even under a pay-bydelivery contract, if doing so is too costly.  

In addition to the direct comparison among the combi­ nations of strategies, we also investigate the interplay of the payment and pricing schemes to answer the second research question. Because they are both potential tools for the retailer to mitigate the supply yield risk, intuition suggests that the two postponement strategies may be substitutes. Nevertheless, our analysis uncovers the op­ posite: When the potential yield loss is not too severe and the production cost is in the medium range, pay­ ment postponement and pricing postponement are stra­ tegic complements. In such a situation, the use of one strategy can enhance the positive effect of the other for the retailer.  

Finally, for the last research question, we scrutinize the system-wide implications of the retailer’s postpone­ ment strategies. To be specific, we take the channel’s perspective and study the respective impacts of the pay­ ment and pricing schemes on firms’ profits, as well as the consumer surplus. We find that payment postpone­ ment can be a Pareto optimal choice for the entire supply chain, especially when the supplier’s production cost is low. However, with relatively high cost, either the con­ sumers (without pricing postponement) or the sup­ plier (with pricing postponement), but not both, will be negatively affected by the payment postponement. As for the impact of the pricing postponement, we show that it can be positive for the entire channel, but the benefit is largely enhanced when accompanied by payment post­ ponement. In fact, the retailer’s pricing-postponement strategy may hurt the supplier if payment is not post­ poned. Rather, once the retailer shifts the yield risk back to the upstream and lets the supplier make inflation deci­ sions, postponing the pricing decision will never hurt anyone in the supply chain. Under each payment scheme, pricing postponement is more likely to benefit the supply chain with relatively high production cost. The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 surveys the extant literature and positions our work. Sec­ tion 3 formulates and analyzes the model. We study the retailer’s strategy-selection problem in Section 4 and investigate the channel implications in Section 5. Section 6 presents numerical studies; Section 7 discusses three interesting extensions; and, finally, Section 8 concludes the paper. Proofs and additional results are all relegated to the online appendices.  

# 2. Literature Review  

Because the primary focus of this paper is to identify effective mechanisms to cope with supply shortage, it is related to the literature on supply risk management in general. Depending on the nature of the risk, there are three commonly adopted supply risk models in previous research: The random capacity model is used when sup­ ply shortage is due to unexpected capacity deterioration (e.g., Ciarallo et al. 1994); binomial disruption models severe supply problems caused by disruptive events (e.g., Chen et al. 2001); and the proportional random yield model captures the output shortage led by the inherent risk suffered by the production process (e.g., Yano and Lee 1995 and Grosfeld-Nir and Gerchak 2004). Our paper uses the proportional random yield model because it best fits the motivating setting of agribusiness. This line of research is largely devoted to the design of operational strategies to effectively mitigate yield risk. For example, firms can inflate production and/or hold extra inventory to hedge against yield risk (see Henig and Gerchak 1990, Li and Zheng 2006, Kouvelis et al. 2018); diversify their supply base to enjoy the riskpooling effect and reduce supply output variability (see Anupindi and Akella 1993; Dada et al. 2007; Federgruen and Yang 2008, 2009, 2011; Tang and Kouvelis 2011; Fed­ ergruen and Yang 2014; Hu and Kostamis 2015; Dong et al. 2022, 2023); and exert effort to improve the suppli­ ers’ production reliability (see Wang et al. 2009, Tang et al. 2014, Wang et al. 2014).  

Both risk-mitigating strategies studied in this paper highlight the postponement of certain events, and, thus, our paper is related to the literature that examines the effect of payment/pricing postponement on firms’ operational measures. In this regard, the pricingpostponement strategy has been studied in various set­ tings. First, previous research has considered variability from the demand side. Van Mieghem and Dada (1999) first study the impact of the pricing timing on the inven­ tory decision under demand uncertainty. Chod and Rudi (2005) investigate how responsive pricing affects the usage of flexible resources under correlated de­ mands. Granot and Yin (2008) study how order and price postponement affect the performance of a decentralized supply chain with a price-setting newsvendor. Second, in the presence of random yield, Tang and Yin (2007) and Kouvelis et al. (2021) illustrate the benefit of pricing postponement for risk-neutral and risk-averse firms, respectively. Li et al. (2017) and Dong et al. (2023) evalu­ ate the strategic interaction between diversification and responsive pricing in mitigating either supply capacity risk or yield risk.  

As for payment postponement, it has been widely studied in the supply chain finance literature that con­ cerns trade-credit-related contracts. This stream pri­ marily focuses on understanding the financing role of payment postponement and how it affects channel effi­ ciency (see, e.g., Kouvelis and Zhao 2012, Chod 2017, Yang and Birge 2018, Chod et al. 2019, etc.). In the context of supplier’s product failure, Babich and Tang (2012) and Rui and Lai (2015) investigate how to use payment post­ ponement, together with inspection, to mitigate supplier product adulteration risk. In addition, Tang et al. (2018) study how payment postponement interacts with other financing mechanisms to reduce financially constrained supplier’s performance risk under asymmetric informa­ tion. Different from the above works, we consider the setting where the supplier may deliver a random fraction of the order quantity, in contrast to the all-or-nothing delivery performance assumed in the above papers. As such, payment postponement could incentivize the sup­ plier to voluntarily inflate the production quantity in order to improve the final delivery performance.  

In summary, despite the vast volume of extant works on random yield and how firms cope with the risk by maintaining certain flexibility, we have not seen pay­ ment postponement and pricing postponement being studied together. However, in practice, the retailer facing random yield in the upstream production process is able to use both postponement strategies. Hence, results from prior works can only describe the optimal strategy for the retailer from one aspect. For example, responsive pricing may be shown to benefit the firm in some setting, but it may become harmful if a different payment scheme is used. Therefore, our foremost contribution is to investigate the strategic interaction between payment postponement and pricing postponement in mitigating supply yield risk in a decentralized supply chain and to provide a more comprehensive strategy analysis for firms to manage yield risk in practice.  

# 3. Model and Analysis 3.1. Basic Framework  

Consider a supply chain that comprises one supplier and one retailer. The retailer orders the product from the sup­ plier and sells to an end market of consumers. The sup­ plier’s production yield is subject to variability, and, as a result, the planned production level will not always be fully realized. Let $\dot{Y}$ be the stochastic proportional yield factor with the following distribution:  

$$
Y={\left\{\begin{array}{l l}{1}&{{\mathrm{with~probability}}\quad\theta;}\\ {\alpha}&{{\mathrm{with~probability}}\quad1-\theta.}\end{array}\right.}
$$  

Here, $\alpha\in(0,1)$ measures the severity of yield loss, and $\theta\in(0,1)$ represents the likelihood of perfect yield. Let $\mu=\alpha(1-\theta)+\theta$ the expected yield factor. One practi­ cal example captured by our yield model is the livestock and crop supply process, where the animals or plant seeds may catch infectious diseases with probability $1-\theta,$ and the mortality rate is $1-\alpha$ . Thus, our model serves as a sensible estimate when yield loss is related to defect rate or survival rate. The binary random yield fac­ tor, despite its simple form, is able to capture both the severity and likelihood of yield loss, allowing us to char­ acterize the strategic interplay of postponement strate­ gies with an insightful and tractable model. Finally, we assume that the production cost, c per unit, is incurred to the supplier for the entire planned production, regard­ less of the realized yield.  

On the demand side, we assume that the end market is deterministic and price-driven. Specifically, given a retail price $p,$ the demand for the product is $D(p)=$ $a-b p,$ where $a$ is the potential market size and $b$ is the price sensitivity. The linear functional form is widely adopted in the literature (e.g., Tang and Kouvelis 2011 and Dong et al. 2022). In the main model, we assume deterministic demand to fully focus on the impact of the supply uncertainty. We relax this assumption and incor­ porate demand uncertainty in one of our extensions (see Section 7.2).  

# 3.2. Postponement Strategies  

As mentioned in Section 1, the retailer may use two post­ ponement strategies as potential risk-mitigating tools. First, the timing of the procurement payment could be specified in a price-only contract. The pay-by-order scheme requires the retailer to complete the transaction when placing the order, based on the ordered quantity q. The pay-by-delivery scheme, on the other hand, post­ pones the payment until after the yield realizes and requires the retailer to pay only for the delivered quan­ tity. Because of its contingency nature, the latter intui­ tively shifts the yield risk to the upstream supplier. Indeed, under a pay-by-order contract, the supplier’s production level $Q$ will be exactly the same as the ordered quantity $q;$ however, under a pay-by-delivery contract, the supplier may have incentives to inflate the production. Hence, the delivered quantity, which is a random variable, is given by $\hat{q}=\operatorname*{min}\{Y Q,q\}.$ Following the common practices in agribusiness (see Scott 2003 and MacDonald et al. 2004), we assume that the retailer sets the payment scheme in the contract, and the supplier sets the wholesale price.  

Second, the retailer may use two pricing strategies when selling to the end market: either committing to a retail price before the random yield realizes (referred to as ex ante pricing) or deciding a retail price at a later stage when the actual yield is known (referred to as responsive pricing). In the first case, because the retail price decided before yield realization may not be able to match supply with demand, the retailer has to absorb the supply risk by itself. In the second case, the retailer adopts respon­ sive pricing and is thus able to transfer part of the supply risk to the downstream consumers by adjusting the retail price according to the available supply. Note that the retail price p in this setting is decided based on the available-for-sale amount—that is, the delivered quantity $\hat{q}$ —so that the retailer’s total revenue, $p\mathrm{min}\{d(\boldsymbol{\dot{p}}),\boldsymbol{\hat{q}}\},$ is maximized.  

# 3.3. Problem Formulation  

To examine the impact of the above postponement strat­ egies, we look at four scenarios: (1) scenario OA (pay-byorder and ex ante pricing), (2) scenario OR (pay-by-order and responsive pricing), (3) scenario DA (pay-by-deliv­ ery and ex ante pricing), and (4) scenario DR (pay-bydelivery and responsive pricing). In this paper, we will use these abbreviations as superscripts to differentiate the scenarios; moreover, see a list of notations in Online Appendix A for ease of reference. In each scenario, we model the interactions between the supplier and the retailer via a Stackelberg game. We assume a symmetric information setting—that is, all the yield, cost, and de­ mand information is common knowledge. This is a pop­ ular assumption in the related literature (e.g., Granot and Yin 2008, Tang and Kouvelis 2011, Babich and Tang 2012, Kouvelis et al. 2021) and will let us focus on ans­ wering the main research questions. Depending on the strategies adopted by the retailer, the sequence of events along the channel differs; see Table 1 for an illustration.  

Given a certain scenario, we formulate the retailer’s and the supplier’s problems following the sequence of events shown in Table 1. We assume that both firms are risk-neutral. Hence, the retailer chooses the order quan­ tity and the retail price to maximize its expected profit, which is the revenue from the end market less the pro­ curement cost. Specifically, the revenue from selling to the consumers is given by $r(p,q;Q)=p\mathrm{min}\{d(p),Y\bar{Q_{\cdot}}q\},$ and the procurement cost is simply a transfer payment Tk in scenario $k.$ . Under the price-only contract, $T^{k}=$ T $\scriptstyle(w,Q,q);$ specifically, $T^{k}=w{\dot{q}}$ if $k\in\{\dot{O}A,O R\}$ (pay-byorder), and $\bar{T}^{k}=w\mathrm{min}\{Y Q,q$ } if $k\in\{D A,D R\}$ (pay-bydelivery). Moreover, the supplier will (sequentially) choose the wholesale price and the production level to maximize its expected profit, which is $T^{k}-c Q$ .  

We now formulate each firm’s problem in a backward fashion. First, given the wholesale price $w$ and the retai­ ler’s order quantity $q,$ the supplier decides production quantity $Q=Q(w,q)$ to maximize its expected profit: maxQ $\mathbf{E}[T^{k}(w,Q,q)]-c Q$ for $k\in\{O A,D A,{\bar{O}}R,D R\}.$  

Next, given $(w,Q),$ the retailer solves the following problem in each scenario:  

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l l}{\underset{\boldsymbol{q}}{\operatorname*{max}}~\mathbf{E}[\underset{\boldsymbol{p}}{\operatorname*{max}}~r(\boldsymbol{p},\boldsymbol{q};Q(w,q))}\\ {\quad\quad\quad-T^{k}(w,Q(w,q),q)]}&{\mathrm{if}~k\in\{O R,D R\};}\\ {\underset{\boldsymbol{q},\boldsymbol{p}}{\operatorname*{max}}~\mathbf{E}[r(\boldsymbol{p},\boldsymbol{q};Q(w,q))}\\ {\quad\quad\quad-T^{k}(w,Q(w,q),q)]}&{\mathrm{if}~k\in\{O A,D A\}.}\end{array}\right.
$$  

Lastly, anticipating the retailer’s decisions $q(w)$ and the corresponding production $Q(w):=Q(w,q(w)),$ , the sup­ plier optimizes its expected profit by setting the whole sale price w:  

$$
\begin{array}{r l}&{\underset{w}{\operatorname*{max}}~\mathbf{E}[T^{k}(w,Q(w),q(w))]-c Q(w),}\\ &{\mathrm{~for~}k\in\{O A,D A,O R,D R\}.}\end{array}
$$  

In addition to the firms’ profits, we are also interested in the impact of the postponement strategies on the consu­ mers. To that end, we first define the consumer surplus  

Table 1. The Sequence of Events in Each Scenario   


<html><body><table><tr><td>OA</td><td>OR</td><td>DA</td><td>DR</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Supplier decides wholesale price w;</td></tr><tr><td>Retailer orders q from supplier, pays for the ordered amount, and sets retail price p;</td><td>Retailer orders q from supplier and pays for the ordered amount;</td><td>Retailer orders q from supplier and sets retail price p;</td><td>Retailer orders q from supplier;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4"> Supplier decides production level Q and produces;</td></tr><tr><td colspan="4">Yield realizes and supplier delivers  = min{YQ,q} to retailer;</td></tr><tr><td>Retailer sells to the end market.</td><td>Retailer sets retail price p and sells to the end market.</td><td>Retailer pays for the delivered amount and sells to the end market.</td><td>Retailer pays for the delivered amount, sets retail price p, and sells to the end market.</td></tr></table></body></html>  

under uncertain supply. Let $X$ be the available-for-sale amount and $p$ be the market price. Then, define  

$$
S(p,X)=\int_{0}^{\operatorname*{min}\{d(p),X\}}(p(t)-p)d t,
$$  

where $p(d)$ is the inverse demand function. In the above formula, we implicitly assume that when the supply shortage happens, the available inventory is allocated with priority to the consumers with higher willingnessto-pay, which generates the highest possible consumer surplus among other allocation rules (Cohen et al. 2022). In addition, by our assumption on the demand, there exists a unique $d^{*}$ that maximizes the revenue function $p(d)d$ . Hence, given $X,$ , the optimal ex post market price is decided by $\mathbf{\dot{\rho}}p^{*}(X)=p(d^{*})\mathbf{1}_{\{X\geq d^{*}\}}+p(X)\mathbf{1}_{\{X<d^{*}\}}.$ .  

In our setting, the random variable $\overrightharpoon{X}=\hat{q}=\mathrm{min}$ $\{Y Q,q\}$ —that is, the delivered quantity. Therefore, after solving for the market price $p^{k},$ order quantity $q^{k},$ , and production quantity $Q^{k}$ in equilibrium, we may derive the expected equilibrium consumer surplus in each sce­ nario:  

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l l l}{\mathbf{E}[S(p^{k},\widehat{q}\left(q^{k},Q^{k}\right))]}&{\mathrm{if}}&{k\in\{O A,D A\};}\\ {\mathbf{E}[S(p^{*}(\widehat{q}(q^{k},Q^{k})),\widehat{q}(q^{k},Q^{k}))]}&{\mathrm{if}}&{k\in\{O R,D R\}.}\end{array}\right.
$$  

We denote the equilibrium profits of the retailer and supplier and the corresponding consumer surplus in scenario $k$ by $\pi_{R}^{k},\pi_{S}^{k},$ and $\mathbf{\boldsymbol{C}}\mathbf{\boldsymbol{S}}^{k},$ respectively. A direct observation from the problem formulation is that the equilibrium results in each scenario $k,(\pi_{R}^{k},\pi_{S}^{k},$ and $C S^{k}),$ depend on the production cost $\scriptstyle{c,c}$ the yield distribution $(\bar{\alpha,\theta),}$ and the demand-curve characteristics $(a,b).$  

# 3.4. Equilibrium Results  

We adopt the subgame perfect equilibrium concept and use backward induction to solve the problem. The equi­ librium results for each scenario are summarized below.  

Lemma 1 (Scenario OA Equilibrium). The retailer’s profit $\pi_{R}^{O A}$ , the supplier’s profit $\pi_{S}^{O A}$ , and the consumer surplus CSOA at equilibrium, respectively, are uniquely defined and have three continuous pieces on $0\leq\dot{c}<\operatorname{inax}\{0,c_{1}^{O A}\},$ $\operatorname*{max}\{0,c_{1}^{O A}\}\leq c<\operatorname*{max}\{\dot{0},c_{2}^{O A}\}$ and $\operatorname*{max}\{0,c_{2}^{O A}\}\dot{\leq}c<$ $a\mu/b;$ ; the critical values $c_{1}^{O A}<c_{2}^{O A}<a\mu/b$ and the equilib­ rium results are specified in Online Appendix B.1. More­ over, the retailer inflates its order quantity only when $0\leq c<\operatorname*{max}\{0,c_{2}^{O A}\},$ and the supplier never inflates its pro­ duction—that is, $Q=q$ .  

As analytically characterized and graphically illus­ trated in Online Appendix B.1, there exists a partition of the unit square that consists of three regions, $\mathcal{H}_{i}$ $(i=1,2,$ 3), such that $0<c_{1}^{O A}<c_{2}^{O A}$ if $(\alpha,\theta)\in\mathcal{H}_{1};c_{1}^{O A}\leq0<c_{2}^{O A}$ if $(\alpha,\theta)\in\mathcal{H}_{2};$ and $c_{2}^{O A}\leq0$ if $(\alpha,\theta)\in\mathcal{H}_{3}$ . We will use this partition for our qualitative discussions later.  

Lemma 2 (Scenario OR Equilibrium). The retailer’s profit $\pi_{R}^{O R}$ , the supplier’s profit $\pi_{S}^{O R}$ , and the consumer surplus ${\dot{C}}{\dot{S}}^{O R}$ at equilibrium, respectively, are uniquely defined and have two continuous pieces on $0\leq c<\operatorname*{max}\{0,c^{O R}\}$ and $\operatorname*{max}\{0,c^{O R}\}\leq c<a\mu/\dot{b}_{}$ ; the critical value $c^{O R}<a\mu/b$ and the equilibrium results are specified in Online Appendix B.2. Moreover, the retailer inflates its order quantity only when $0\leq c<\operatorname*{max}\{0,c^{O R}\},$ and the supplier never inflates its production—that is, $Q=q$ .  

Lemma 2 implies that the threshold value $c^{O R}$ can be nonpositive. From the proof, we can see that either $\alpha\geq$ $1/2$ or $\theta\ge1/2$ is sufficient to ensure that $c^{O R}\leq0$ . In this case, there is no order inflation from the retailer. Hence, when the likelihood of experiencing yield loss is low, or when the possible shortage from the random yield is small, using responsive pricing to mitigate the risk is already adequate. However, if the risk is both likely and severe and the production cost is sufficiently low, it is optimal for the retailer to inflate its order.  

Lemma 3 (Scenario DA Equilibrium). The retailer’s profit $\pi_{R}^{D A},$ , the supplier’s profit $\pi_{S}^{D A}$ , and the consumer surplus $C\bar{S}^{D A}$ at equilibrium, respectively, are uniquely defined and have two continuous pieces on $0\leq\overline{{c<c^{D A}}}$ and ${\overline{{c^{D A}}}}\leq c$ $<a\mu/b;$ the critical value $c^{D A}$ and the equilibrium results are specified in Online Appendix B.3. Moreover, the sup­ plier inflates the production level—that is, $Q=q/\alpha.$ —only when $\dot{0}\le c<c^{D A}$ , and the retailer never inflates its order.  

Lemma 3 confirms that, under a pay-by-delivery scheme, the supplier absorbs the yield risk by resorting to production inflation whenever profitable. Moreover, unlike the previous scenarios, in scenario $\mathrm{\DeltaDA,}$ the equi­ librium results as functions of $c$ always have two pieces. This means that, regardless of the yield distribution, inflation is always used to combat the yield risk when the production cost is low.  

Lemma 4 (Scenario DR Equilibrium). Suppose $\alpha\ge9/16$ The retailer’s profit $\pi_{R}^{D R},$ , the supplier’s profit $\pi_{S}^{D R}$ , and the consumer surplus $C\bar{S}^{D R}$ at equilibrium, respectively, are uniquely defined and have three continuous pieces on $0\leq c$ $<c_{1}^{\dot{D}R},c_{1}^{D R}\dot{\leq}c<c_{2}^{D R}$ , and $c_{2}^{D R}\leq c<a\mu/b$ ; the critical values $c_{i}^{D R}$ $(i=1,2)$ and the equilibrium results are specified in Online Appendix B.4. Moreover, the supplier inflates the production $\left(Q=q/\alpha\right)$ when $0\leq c<c_{1}^{D R}$ , but does not in­ flate the production $(Q=q)$ when $c_{2}^{D h}\leq c<a\mu/b$ . When $c_{1}^{D R}\leq c<c_{2}^{D R}$ , the supplier is indifferent to inflation, and we assume $Q=q/\alpha$ ecause the resulting consumer sur­ plus is higher. The retailer never inflates its order.  

In Lemma 4, we assume $\alpha\ge9/16$ to get clean analyti­ cal results. Indeed, in a sole-sourcing setting such as ours, it is plausible to assume that the retailer only sources from a relatively reliable supplier. Note that the general case can be analyzed, and the results are given in the proof in Online Appendix B.4.  

# 4. Retailer’s Strategy Selection  

In this section, we take the retailer’s perspective and inves­ tigate the selection of the postponement strategies. Our analysis will pivot on two aspects of the retailer’s strategy selection. First, starting from scenario $\mathrm{OA},$ which is as­ sumed to be the status quo scenario, should the retailer choose to move to other scenarios (OR, DA, or DR), and, if yes, which one? Second, because the two strategies are both designed to mitigate the supply risk for the retailer, would using one postponement strategy enhance or di­ minish the effect of using the other?  

# 4.1. Preference Between Various Postponement Strategies  

Starting from scenario OA, we examine the retailer’s pref­ erence between different scenarios. To obtain organized insights, we tackle this problem from two standpoints. First, we derive sufficient conditions under which the sta­ tus quo scenario dominates all other scenarios. Thus, in this case, there is no need to consider other scenarios. Sec­ ond, we assume that scenario OA is suboptimal. Then, we compare the other scenarios and find the best one for the retailer. Note that, if the retailer has the same profit in two scenarios, we assume that it prefers the scenario with less postponement; that is, the adoption of any postpone­ ment strategy occurs only with strict dominance.  

4.1.1. Should the Retailer Depart from Scenario OA? The retailer will not even consider any postpone­ ment strategy if the status quo already leads to the high est profit. Otherwise, if the current profit is strictly dominated by the profit under any of scenarios OR, $\mathrm{DA},$ or DR, the retailer should consider using at least one postponement strategy. The following proposition pro­ vides sufficient conditions in this regard.  

Proposition 1. Suppose $\alpha\ge9/16$ . Then, there exists a $0<$ $\tilde{C}<\dot{a}\mu/b$ such that (i) if $(\alpha,\theta)\in\mathcal{H}_{1},$ then $\pi_{R}^{O A}=\pi_{R}^{D A}=$ $\pi_{R}^{D R}>\pi_{R}^{O R}$ for $0<c<\operatorname*{min}\{\tilde{C},c_{1}^{O A}\},$ ; and (ii) $i f\left(\alpha,\theta\right)\in\mathcal{H}_{2},$ then $\pi_{R}^{O A}>\pi_{R}^{D A}=\pi_{R}^{D R}>\pi_{R}^{O R}$ for 0 < c < min ˜C, cOA . On the contrary, for any $0<\alpha,\theta<1$ and $\operatorname*{max}\{0,c_{2}^{O\bar{A}}\}<$ $c<a\mu/b,~O A$ is strictly dominated by at least one of the other three scenarios.  

Proposition 1 identifies two conditions under which the status quo scenario OA is already dominating. Under either condition, the production cost is relatively low and the parameter $\theta$ not large (see the definition of $\mathcal{H}_{i},$ $i=1,2,3,$ , in Online Appendix B.1). Moreover, in these cases, solely postponing pricing is always a strictly domi­ nated strategy, and using pay-by-delivery contract to postpone payment results in the same retailer’s profit, regardless of the pricing schemes. This finding shows that, when the channel is relatively cost-efficient (i.e., small $\mid c\mid$ ) and the likelihood of having yield loss is high (i.e., small to medium θ), the retailer is better off by maintaining the status quo; any strategic postponement would result in unchanged or lower profit.  

Let us understand the above result from the perspec­ tive of the supplier’s reaction to the retailer’s decision. Because the production cost is low, the retailer is likely to order more. If the retailer uses responsive pricing to take advantage of a more efficient (and perfectly matched) retail market, the supplier would also want to benefit from it. Thus, the responsive pricing will lead to a higher wholesale price and worsen the double-marginalization problem. In fact, with relatively unreliable yield, the retailer will actually be hurt by moving to scenario OR. If the retailer chooses a pay-by-delivery contract to transfer the yield risk back to the supplier, this decision has two unfavorable consequences. First, the retailer loses the control in the inflation decision, which may be manipu­ lated to benefit itself. Second, the supplier may charge a “premium” on the wholesale price to compensate for bearing the risk. Therefore, because of the unreliable yield, it is difficult for a pay-by-delivery contract to bene­ fit the retailer. Moreover, note that in $\mathcal{H}_{2},~\theta$ in the medium range, so the yield variance is large. As a result, the supplier may increase the wholesale price even more, resulting in the strict dominance described in the above proposition.  

Lastly, Proposition 1 also gives a situation where the retailer will want to depart from the status quo scenario. Specifically, we find that responsive pricing makes the retailer strictly better when the supplier’s production cost is relatively high. Therefore, for a less cost-efficient supply chain, it is better for the retailer to deploy at least one postponement strategy (responsive pricing). It is worth noting that $c_{2}^{O A}<0$ in $\mathcal{H}_{3.}$ , and, therefore, by Prop­ osition 1, scenario OA is strictly dominated for all feasi­ ble $\mathbf{\Psi}_{c}$ . This means that the supplier’s reliability has a considerable impact on the retailer’s strategy selection. When the likelihood of supply shortage $(1-\theta)$ is small, and, thus, the supplier is relatively reliable, the retailer would prefer leaving the status quo scenario even if the production cost is low.  

4.1.2. Suppose That Scenario OA Is Not Optimal for the Retailer. In this case, $\pi_{R}^{O A}<\operatorname*{max}\{\pi_{R}^{k};k=O R,D A,$ $\cal{D}{R}\rbrace$ . Then, to strictly improve profit, the retailer needs to move away from the current scenario by postponing either the procurement payment the retail pricing, or both. Hence, we compare the retailer’s equilibrium profit under scenario OR, DA, and DR, respectively, to find out when to use what strategy. The supplier’s response to the retailer’s strategic postponement, which will affect the outcome of the vertical interaction in the decentra­ lized supply chain, is largely driven by the yield uncer­ tainty and the production cost. The next proposition characterizes the retailer’s preference among the various postponement strategies.  

Proposition 2. Let $\alpha\geq9/16$ . Then, the following state­ ments hold. ( $\pi_{R}^{O R}<\pi_{R}^{D R}=\pi_{R}^{D A}$ for $0<c<\tilde{C}$ . (ii) $\pi_{R}^{D A}=$ $\pi_{R}^{D R}<\pi_{R}^{O R}$ for $\tilde{C}<c<c_{1}^{D R}$ (iii) $\pi_{R}^{D A}<\pi_{R}^{O R}<\pi_{R}^{D R}$ for $c_{1}^{D R}<c<c_{2}^{D R}$ (iv) $\pi_{R}^{D A}<\pi_{R}^{D R}=\pi_{R}^{O R}.$ for $c_{2}^{D R}<c<a\mu/b$ .  

As the production cost $c$ increases, the preferred post­ ponement strategy changes for the retailer. When $0<c<$ $\tilde{C}$ (threshold $\tilde{C}$ was introduced in Proposition 1), the optimal scenario is DA. That is, the retailer is better off using a pay-by-delivery contract to postpone procure­ ment payment. The pricing postponement, on the other hand, should not be considered. This shows that in a rel­ atively cost-efficient supply chain, the retailer would rather transfer the yield risk to the supplier than to the end-market consumers. Indeed, as mentioned before, if the production cost is low, then using responsive pricing to clear the market may amplify the doublemarginalization problem, and, as a result, the retailer could get hurt. When the production cost increases to $\Tilde{C}<c<c_{1}^{D R}$ , however, scenario OR becomes the best for the retailer: The retailer changes from payment post­ ponement to pricing postponement. In this case, the pro­ duction inflation gets more costly for the supplier, and the increased wholesale price would dissuade the retailer from choosing a pay-by-delivery contract. Instead, the retailer will postpone pricing to transfer the risk to con­ sumers. As a matter of fact, Proposition 2 implies that as long as $c>{\tilde{C}},$ the retailer will use responsive pricing. Hence, for the retailer, the benefit of matching supply with demand in the end market can always overcome the double-marginalization problem when production cost is not low.  

For production cost $c_{1}^{D R}<c<c_{2}^{D R},$ Proposition 2 shows a strict dominance relationship, and the retailer achieves the highest profit in scenario $\scriptstyle\mathrm{DR},$ where both payment and retail pricing are postponed. Here, we observe a range of production $\mathrm{cost,}$ over which using both post­ ponement strategies dominates using just one of them. Indeed, as previously discussed, the benefit of using responsive pricing (i.e., more efficient retail market) is growing as $\mathbf{\Psi}_{c}$ increases (i.e., less efficient production); and, on the other hand, the retailer gets less benefit from a pay-by-delivery contract as $c$ increases because produc­ tion inflation becomes costly for the supplier. As a result, the net benefit achieves the highest at some mediumrange production cost. Note that when $c_{2}^{D K}<c<a\mu/b,$ the supplier does not inflate production in scenario DR (i.e., Lemma 4), and, thus, we have $\pi_{R}^{O R}=\pi_{R}^{D R}$ . Hence, if the production is so costly that inflation is not worth­ while, then the retailer might just prefer scenario OR instead.  

4.1.2.1. Practical Implications. Because the postpone­ ment strategies are used to deal with the yield risk, one may intuit that using at least one of these strategies may help the retailer gain more profit; moreover, they are more likely to be adopted when the supplier is more unreliable. However, our findings bring cautions to such a conclusion. Specifically, Proposition 1 implies that even when the yield loss occurs with a relatively high likeli­ hood, the retailer is still better off not using either post­ ponement strategy if the upstream supplier’s production is not costly. On the contrary, when full yield is very likely, the retailer should use some postponement strat­ egy, as shown by Proposition 2(i). As such, the distribu­ tion of the random yield has an impact on the retailer’s strategy selection in practice. These nonintuitive results are mainly due to the decentralized setting, where the unreliable yield causes the supplier to respond more aggressively to the retailer’s postponement decisions, making them less effective for the retailer. Therefore, an unhealthy vertical relationship along the supply chain may render the yield risk management ineffective.  

# 4.2. Strategic Interplay  

We now explore the strategic interplay between the two postponement strategies. In particular, we examine whether these strategies are substitutes or complements. We define the two strategies to be substitutes [comple­ ments] if one strategy reduces [increases] the value of using the other.  

Definition 1. The payment-postponement strategy and the pricing-postponement strategy are substitutes [complements] if $V<0$ $[V>0],$ where $\mathbf{\check{\calV}}=(\pi_{R}^{D R}-\pi_{R}^{O R})$ $-\bigl(\pi_{R}^{\bar{D}A}-\pi_{R}^{O A}\bigr).$  

The purpose of studying the strategic interplay is to infer when the two postponement strategies would make each other more effective. Positioned between the supplier and consumers in a supply chain, the retailer has several risk-mitigating tools at its disposal to shift the supply risk either upstream or down­ stream. Intuition suggests that these two directions of transferring risk are substitutes. However, can the two postponement strategies ever be complements? Will the effectiveness of one strategy be enhanced by using the other strategy? Because the indicator $V$ is a function of production cost and the yield distribution, the answer to the above question depends on those parameters. In the following, we focus on a particular region of $(\alpha,\theta)$ to determine the sign of $V$ for all feasi­ ble production cost $c$ .  

Proposition 3. Suppose $\alpha\ge9/16$ and $(\alpha,\theta)\in\mathcal{H}_{3}$ . Then, there exists a $0<\hat{C}<a\mu/b$ such that  

First of all, note that when the cost is high—that is, $c^{D A}<c<a\mu/b$ —the supplier will never inflate produc­ tion under a pay-by-delivery contract (see Lemmas 3 and 4). Hence, the payment postponement is actually irrelevant. As a result, it has no impact on the effective­ ness of the pricing-postponement strategy—that is, $V=0$ . Second, we confirm the intuition that the two strat­ egies are indeed substitutes, but only when the produc­ tion cost is either relatively low $(0<\stackrel{\cdot}{c}<c_{1}^{D R}),$ ) or relatively high $(\hat{C}<c<c^{D A})$ . In these cases, we have shown in the previous results that either the responsive pricing or the pay-by-delivery contract may not be effective for the retailer with small or large c. Here, we further show that the effectiveness of one strategy could actually decrease when the other one is also in use.  

More importantly, Proposition 3 also uncovers an interesting case in which the two postponement strate­ gies are complements to each other: $V{>}0$ when $c_{1}^{D R}<c$ $<\hat{C}$ . That is, with medium range of production cost, both postponement strategies are beneficial to the retailer (see Proposition 2); moreover, the use of one strategy will enhance the effectiveness of the other strategy. Note that the above results hold for certain yield distribution. Our premise is that the supply is reliable in that full delivery is likely (i.e., large $\theta$ ) and possible yield loss is small (i.e., large $\alpha$ ). The more general situation will be numerically studied in Section 6.2.  

4.2.1. Practical Implications. Whereas the retailer’s pre­ ference toward the use of various postponement strate­ gies highlights their first-order differences, the sign of $V$ studied here represents the difference in difference of postponing payment and postponing pricing. Hence, Proposition 3 complements Propositions 1 and 2 by char­ acterizing the second-order interaction between the two strategies. Moreover, in practice, the interplay between the two postponement decisions does have some impli­ cations on the comparison between the sole impact and joint impact of the strategies. For example, suppose that the two strategies are substitutes—that is, $V<0$ —then, $\underline{{\pi}}_{R}^{D R}<\operatorname*{max}\{\pi_{R}^{D A},\pi_{R}^{O R}\}$ if $\overline{{\pi_{R}^{\mathrm{OA}}>\operatorname*{min}}}\{\pi_{R}^{D A},\pi_{R}^{O R}\}$ . That is, if the status quo profit already dominates one of the strate­ gies, then it is never good for the retailer to use both strat­ egies. Conversely, suppose that the two strategies are complements—that is, $V{>}0$ —then, $\pi_{R}^{D R}>\operatorname*{max}\{\pi_{R}^{D A},$ $\underline{{\overline{{\pi_{R}^{O R}}}}}\}$ if $\overline{{\pi_{R}^{O A}}}<\operatorname*{min}\{\pi_{R}^{D A},\pi_{R}^{O R}\}$ . That is, if the retailer should take at least one of the postponement strategies to increase the current profit, then it is even better to use both strategies. These practical implications provide helpful guidance for the retailer to evaluate the benefit of the postponement strategies.  

# 5. Channel Implications  

In this section, we turn to investigate the systematic impact of a certain adopted postponement strategy on the retai­ ler’s profit, the upstream supplier’s profit, and the down­ stream consumer surplus. Specifically, fixing the pricing scheme [procurement contract], we compare the profits and consumer surplus changes due to the use of payment postponement [pricing postponement]. Given that the retailer’s profit gets improved, will the upstream supplier and the downstream consumers be positively or nega­ tively affected? When will the entire supply chain benefit from either postponement strategy? These are the ques­ tions that we attempt to answer.  

# 5.1. The Impact of Payment Postponement  

We begin with the study on the system-wide impact of the payment-postponement strategy. When the retailer’s pricing scheme is fixed (either ex ante or responsive pric­ ing), the retailer choosing pay-by-delivery over pay-byorder will receive different reactions from the supplier, which will further affect the consumer surplus due to pos­ sible supply-demand mismatch. As a potential means of risk management, the pay-by-delivery strategy may help the retailer avoid directly dealing with the yield uncer­ tainty by possible order inflation; rather, the upstream supplier may have to inflate production to cope with the risk now. The following proposition shows, for each pric­ ing scheme, how this upward shift of risk allocation in­ fluences each party along the supply chain.  

Proposition 4. (A) Suppose that the retailer uses ex ante pricing. Then, there exists a $0<\overline{{C}}<c^{D A}$ such that: (i) Both the supplier’s and the retailer’s profits, as well as the consumer surplus, increase for $\operatorname*{im}\dot{{\mathrm a x}}\{0,c_{2}^{O A}\}<c<\operatorname*{max}$ $\{\overline{{C}},c_{2}^{O A}\}$ . (ii) The retailer’s profit and the supplier’s profit increase, but the consumer surplus decreases, for max $\{\overline{{C}},c_{2}^{O A}\}<c<c^{D A}$ . (iii) The supply chain is unaffected for $0<c<\operatorname*{max}\{0,c_{1}^{O A}\}$ or $c^{D A}<c<a\mu/b$ .  

$(R)$ Suppose that the retailer uses responsive pricing and $\alpha\ge9/16$ . Then, we have: (i) Both the supplier’s and the retailer’s profits, as well as the consumer surplus, increase for $0<c<\tilde{C}$ . (ii) Both the supplier’s and the retailer’s prof­ its, as well as the consumer surplus, decrease for $\Tilde{C}<$ $c<c_{1}^{D R}$ . (iii) The retailer’s profit and the consumer surplus increase, but the supplier’s profit decreases, for $c_{1}^{D\dot{R}}<c$ $<c_{2}^{D R}$ . (iv) The supply chain is unaffected for $c_{2}^{D R}<c<$ $a\mu/b$ .  

According to the proof of Lemma 1 (see Online Appendix B.1), the cost thresholds $c_{1}^{O A}$ and $c_{2}^{O A}$ may be negative, depending on the yield distribution. In particu­ lar, if $(\alpha,\theta)\in\mathcal{H}_{3}$ , which includes relatively large $\theta$ , then $c_{1}^{O A}<c_{2}^{O A}<0$ . Thus, Proposition 4(A) becomes especially clean in this case: When the ex ante pricing scheme is adopted, the retailer choosing to postpone payment has the channel effect of (W, W, W) if the production cost $0<$ $c<{\overline{{C}}}$ and $(\mathsf{W},\mathsf{W},\mathrm{L})$ if $\overline{{C}}<c<c^{D A}$ . Here, the three items in the triplet, from left to right, denote the impact on the retailer’s profit, the supplier’s profit, and the consumer surplus. Specifically, “W” (win) denotes an increase in the profit or surplus due to the use of a postponement strategy, and $^{\prime\prime}\mathrm{L}^{\prime\prime}$ (lose) denotes a decrease.  

Therefore, the use of a pay-by-delivery contract in­ stead of pay-by-order can have a positive effect for all parties along the supply chain. Moreover, as shown above, when full yield occurs with relatively high proba­ bility (i.e., $\theta$ rge), the (W, W, W) region is the largest $(0<r<\overline{{C}}$ ). When the production cost is in the medium range (i.e., $\overline{{C}}<c<c^{D A},$ ), however, the payment postpone­ ment will only hurt the consumers. This result shows that, with relatively unlikely yield loss, letting the supplier bear its own yield risk is, by large, beneficial to the whole sup­ ply chain if the production cost is low. High production cost, on the other hand, will make the production inflation expensive and is therefore passed by the firms to the end market, which ultimately hurts the consumers. If produc­ tion is too costly for the supplier to consider inflation— that is, $c^{D A}<c<a\mu/b$ —then, the payment postponement will not have any impact on the supply chain.  

For general $\left(\alpha,\theta\right)\not\in\mathcal{H}_{3},$ Proposition 4(A) also shows that the supply chain is unaffected when $0<c<$ $\mathrm{max}\{0,c_{1}^{O A}\}$ . This situation occurs when the status quo scenario OA is already optimal (see the discussions fol­ lowing Proposition 1) for the retailer. Furthermore, it is worth noting from the proof in Online Appendix C that the supplier’s profit never decreases when the scenario changes from OA to DA. Thus, interestingly, the retai­ ler’s payment-postponement strategy, which shifts the yield risk back to the supplier, actually does not make the supplier worse off in this case.  

Proposition 4(R) characterizes the channel implication of payment postponement when the retail price is decided in a responsive manner. Here, the overall posi­ tive impact $(W,W,W)$ is observed when the production cost is not high—that is, $0<c<\tilde{C}$ . As the production cost increases $(\tilde{\mathbb{E}}\leq c<c_{\tau_{-}}^{D R})$ , the retailer may be worse off from using a pay-by-delivery contract. Note that when this happens, everyone in the supply chain is hurt. That is, the postponement strategies may backfire and make the entire channel suffer. An interesting case arises when c1DR < c < c2 , where we observe a (W, L, W) outcome. Recall that Lemma 4 shows that the supplier inflates the production level in this region. Hence, because of pay­ ment postponement, the supplier has to bear the yield risk, but does not charge a higher wholesale price, which lowers its profit; however, the consumers could benefit from the inflated production quantity and the responsive pricing.  

5.1.1. Practical Implications. Proposition 4(A) and (R) together reveal the systematic impacts of the paymentpostponement strategy under the two pricing schemes. The foremost managerial implication is that, regardless of the pricing scheme, using a pay-by-delivery contract to shift the supply risk from the retailer to the upstream supplier could be Pareto optimal to the entire supply chain, especially when the production is not costly and the order is likely to be fully delivered. This provides an aligned incentive for every channel member to welcome a pay-by-delivery contract, which is usually shorter and easier to write (MacDonald et al. 2004). Secondly, our findings also have practical implications for the nonPareto cases. A payment-postponement strategy, when benefiting the retailer, may have a negative impact on either the supplier or the consumers, but not both, depending on which pricing scheme is in use. Specifi­ cally, consumers may get hurt under ex ante pricing, whereas the supplier’s profit may drop under responsive pricing. Therefore, although responsive pricing can pro­ tect the consumers by better clearing the end market, the retailer needs to consider using ex ante pricing to per­ suade the supplier to sign a pay-by-delivery contract.  

# 5.2. The Impact of Pricing Postponement  

Next, we turn to study the impact of pricing postpone­ ment on the supply chain. Compared with ex ante pric­ ing, deciding retail price after yield realization allows the retailer to better match supply with demand in the end market. Thus, the yield risk exposed to the retailer is mit­ igated, in the sense that consumers are sharing some of the risk as well. Such a downward transfer of the supply risk by the retailer generates systematic consequences in the equilibrium that affect all parties along the supply chain. Given the procurement contract (either pay-byorder or pay-by-delivery), the following proposition identifies and summarizes some of the interesting conse­ quences caused by pricing postponement.  

Proposition 5. (O) Suppose that a pay-by-order contract is in use. Then, we have: (i) Both the supplier’s and the retailer’s profits, as well as the consumer surplus, increase for $\operatorname*{max}\dot{\{}c^{O R},c_{2}^{O A},0\}<c<a\mu/b$ . (ii) There exists an increasing function $\Theta(\alpha)$ such that, if $0<\theta<\Theta(\alpha)$ , then $c_{1}^{O A}>\tilde{C}>0$ ; moreover, both the supplier’s and the retailer’s profits, as well as the consumer surplus, increase for ${\tilde{C}}<$ $\stackrel{\cdot}{c}<\stackrel{O A}{c_{1}}$ . (iii) If $c^{O R}>0.$ , then the retailer’s profit and the consumer surplus increase, but the supplier’s profit de­ creases, for 0 < c < min cOR, cOA .  

$(D)$ Suppose that a pay-by-delivery contract is in use and $\alpha\ge9/16$ . Then, we have: (i) Both the supplier’s and the retailer’s profits, as well as the consumer surplus, increase for $c_{1}^{D R}<c<a\mu/b$ . (ii) The supply chain is unaffected for $0<c<c_{1}^{D R}$ .  

Proposition 5(O) identifies conditions for two possible channel impacts of retail pricing postponement— namely, (W, W, W) and $(\mathsf{W},\mathrm{L},\mathsf{W})$ . Specifically, using responsive pricing, rather than ex ante pricing, could be a Pareto optimal move for the entire supply chain, regardless of the production cost. To see this, note that if the yield distribution satisfies (α, θ) ∈ H3, then both cOR and $\overline{{c_{2}^{O A}}}$ are negative (see the proofs in Online Appendi­ ces B.1 and B.2). Hence, provided that the probability for yield loss is relatively small (i.e., large $\theta$ ), Proposition 5(O)(i) states that for any $0<c<a\mu/b_{.}$ , pricing postpone­ ment simultaneously benefits the supplier, the retailer, and the consumers alike.  

When $\theta$ small or medium, the yield is likely to suffer from proportional loss. However, responsive pricing can still achieve Pareto improvement for the supply chain. Indeed, a $(\mathsf{W},\mathsf{W},\mathsf{W})$ outcome occurs for high or interme­ diate production cost. For example, we find situations where c needs to be larger than cOR and $c_{2}^{O A}$ when either or both of them are positive, so that the entire channel may benefit from the pricing postponement; in addition, we also find that, when $0<\theta<\Theta(\alpha)$ , the same result holds for an intermediate level of production cost—that is, $\tilde{C}<c<c_{1}^{O A}$ (threshold $\tilde{C}$ was introduced in Proposition 1). Such results are consistent with our previous remark that the benefit of responsive pricing is increasing in $\mathbf{\Psi}_{c,\mathbf{\Psi}}$ when the double-marginalization issue becomes light.  

Another interesting result revealed by Proposition $5(\mathrm{O})$ is that the supplier could be hurt by the retailer’s pricing postponement when the production cost is low. Such a $(\mathsf{W},\mathsf{L},\mathsf{W})$ outcome is possible when $0<c<$ $\operatorname*{min}\{c^{O R},c_{1}^{O A}\}$ and the yield loss is both very severe (i.e., small $\alpha$ ) and very likely (i.e., small $\theta$ ). In this case, $c^{O R}>$ 0 and the equilibrium result in scenario OR has two pieces; over the first piece, the retailer will inflate its order quantity (see Lemma 2). Hence, the retailer could order a large quantity and get away with a low whole­ sale price because the production is inexpensive. On the other hand, as the potential yield loss and the supply risk are too high under this circumstance, using respon­ sive pricing can protect the retailer and the consumers, to a large extent. Therefore, the supplier has to bear most of the negative impact of its own unreliability.  

Proposition 5(D) further depicts the channel impact of responsive pricing under a pay-by-delivery contract. Under the assumption $\alpha\ge9/16$ —that is, the yield loss is not severe—the result is very positive: The entire supply chain is either unaffected or strictly better off under responsive pricing. Moreover, we can see that the $(\mathsf{W},\mathsf{W},$ W) region is for high production $\mathrm{cost,~}c_{1}^{D R}<c<a\mu/b$ . Outside this range, the supplier chooses to inflate the production due to low cost, adding some surcharge to the retailer in the wholesale price. As a result of such a strategic interaction between the firms, the benefit of responsive pricing is partially offset, leaving all profits and surplus in the channel unchanged. However, with a high production cost, pricing postponement strictly ben­ efits all parties when a pay-by-delivery contract is in use.  

5.2.1. Practical Implications. The results in Proposition 5 clearly imply that the system-wide benefit of pricing postponement is reinforced by the use of payment post­ ponement: To wit, if the retailer does not shift the yield risk to the upstream supplier, its responsive pricing strat­ egy can hurt the supplier. Rather, given that the retailer does not have to bear the risk from the random yield, postponing the decision on the retail price will never hurt anyone along the supply chain. Moreover, under both payment schemes, the (W, W, W) situation appears when $c$ is not small. Hence, our findings have another practical implication that the performance of a costinefficient decentralized supply chain is more likely to be improved by the retailer’s strategic pricing postpone­ ment. Overall, the retailer’s responsive pricing scheme may be relatively easy for all channel members to accept, especially when the supplier bears the yield risk and runs a costly production process.  

# 6. Numerical Studies  

In the previous sections, we assume $\alpha\ge9/16$ when con­ sidering scenario DR and examine specific regions such as $\mathcal{H}_{i}$ $(i=1,2,3$ ) when scenario OA is involved. To con­ firm that these results continue to hold with general parameter choices, we now show the results of a series of extensive numerical studies, which not only echo our analytical results, but also help us gain further insights. In each study, we fix $a=b=1$ and report the findings based on three representative $\alpha$ lues—namely, $\alpha=0.2$ (small), $\alpha=0.4$ (medium), and $\alpha=0.8$ (large). The re­ sults are characterized as different regions on the feasible set $\{(c,\theta)|0<\theta<1,0<c<\theta+\alpha(1-\theta)\}$ .  

# 6.1. Study 1: Retailer’s Strategy Preference  

To confirm the analytical results in Propositions 1 and 2, we use Figure 1 to depict the retailer’s preferred scenario, $k^{*}=a r g\operatorname*{max}\{k|\pi_{R}^{k}\}$ . The region labeled ${}^{\prime\prime}\mathrm{OA}^{\prime\prime}$ means the status quo scenario is already optimal for the retailer. According to Proposition 1, this occurs when the produc­ tion cost is relatively small and $(\alpha,\theta)\in\mathcal{H}_{1}\cup\mathcal{H}_{2}$ (see the graphical illustration in Online Appendix B.1). Hence, Figure 1 here confirms that the above results largely remain valid with general parameters. Additionally, the numerical study also shows that the retailer prefers OA when $c_{1}^{O A}<c<c_{2}^{O A}$ (again, on $\mathcal{H}_{1}\cup\mathcal{H}_{2}$ ), which extends the analytical findings on the retailer’s strategy selection.  

Moreover, the retailer moves away from the status quo scenario when $(c,\theta)$ falls into other regions. Indeed, the scenarios that dominate others in different situations are given by Proposition 2. Although the proposition requires $\alpha\geq9/16,$ Figure 1 shows that the results still hold with small and medium $\alpha$ . Specifically, Figure 1 illustrates that payment postponement is preferred when $c$ is small, whereas pricing postponement is pre­ ferred when $c$ is large; and, for a certain medium range of production cost, using both postponement strategies is the best for the retailer.  

# 6.2. Study 2: Interplay Between the Two Postponement Strategies  

The next numerical study focuses on the strategic inter­ play of the two postponement strategies, with the objec­ tive to confirm and generalize the results in Proposition 3. We look into the indicator $V$ , according to Definition 1, and characterize the respective regions of $V>0$ , $V<0$ , and $V=0$ in Figure 2. Although the analytical results given by Proposition 3 are based on special yield para­ meters $\begin{array}{r}{\left\{\alpha\geq9/16\right\}\cap\mathcal{H}_{3},}\end{array}$ the numerical study has sup­ ported the validity of our results in general settings. Specifically, when $\theta$ large in Figure 2, we observe that $V$ changes its sign along the horizontal line in the pattern, consistent with the insight of Proposition 3. In particular, for some medium-range production cost $\mathbf{\boldsymbol{c}},$ payment postponement and pricing postponement are strategic complements. Moreover, this range gets larger when $\alpha$ increases. Lastly, in addition to when $\theta$ large, Figure 2 depicts another region where $V{>}0$ —that is, when $\theta$ medium or small. Comparing to Figure 1, we find that this region is exactly when OA dominates other scenar­ ios, and, therefore, the retailer will never use either post­ ponement strategy anyway.  

Figure 1. (Color online) Strategy Preference: Which Strategy Is Optimal for the Retailer?  

# 6.3. Study 3: Channel Impact of Payment Postponement  

Next, we focus on the channel impact of payment post­ ponement, which has been analytically examined by  

Proposition 4. First, Figure 3, (a)–(c) confirms all our ana­ lytical results in Proposition 4(A): With relatively low production cost, payment postponement can benefit the entire supply chain; but with high production cost, the consumers may be worse off. Note that the region $\left(\mathrm{L},\right.$ $x,x)$ means the retailer’s profit is not strictly improved. We deem this situation as “lose” for the retailer and will not further consider the channel impact, which is denoted as $^{\prime\prime}X$ .”  

Second, under the responsive pricing scheme, Proposi­ tion $4(\mathbb{R})$ characterizes the channel impact when $\alpha\ge9/16$ . The analytical findings reveal that, when the retailer postpones payment, everyone in the supply chain benefits, except that the supplier is sometimes worse off. Moreover, (W, W, W) occurs when the pro­ duction cost is low, whereas $(\mathsf{W},\mathrm{~L},\mathrm{~W})$ occurs when the cost is in the medium range. Figure 3(f) is a repre­ sentative instance that demonstrates these results. Fur thermore, Figure 3, (d) and (e) (small and medium $\alpha$ ) uncover a situation that extends our analytical results.  

Notes. (a) Small $\alpha$ : $\alpha=0.2$ . (b) Medium α: $\alpha=0.4$ . (c) Large α: $\alpha=0.8$ .   
Figure 2. (Color online) Strategy Interplay: Are They Substitutes or Complements?   
Notes. (a) Small $\alpha$ : $\alpha=0.2$ . (b) Medium α: $\alpha=0.4$ . (c) Large α: $\alpha=0.8$ .  

Figure 3. (Color online) Channel Impact of Payment Postponement   
Notes. (a)–(c) (A): Assume ex ante pricing and compare scenarios DA vs. OA. (a) Small $\alpha$ : $\alpha=0.2$ . (b) Medium $\alpha$ : $\alpha=0.4$ . (c) Large α: $\alpha=0.8$ . (d)–(f) (R): Assume responsive pricing and compare scenarios DR vs. OR. (d) Small α: $\alpha=0.2$ . (e) Medium α: $\alpha=0.4$ . (f) Large α: $\alpha=0.8$ .  

Here, the payment-postponement strategy may not ben­ efit the retailer when $c$ and $\theta$ e small (see the bottom left corner in the graphs). In other words, when the yield is very likely to suffer from severe loss, the retailer who uses responsive pricing to mitigate the risk will not fur­ ther use a pay-by-delivery contract to shift the risk to the upstream, even if the production is inexpensive. Such a result can be explained by noting that the two strategies are substitutes in these regions; see Figure 2, (a) and (b).  

# 6.4. Study 4: Channel Impact of Pricing Postponement  

Lastly, we turn to the numerical study on the channel impact of pricing postponement. Figure 4 not only con­ firms the findings in Proposition 5, but also offers more insights. First, Figure 4, (a)–(c) depicts the two regions (c is large, or $c$ is medium, but the yield loss is very likely), where pricing postponement is Pareto optimal, which have been analytically characterized in Proposition 5(O). Another confirmed analytical result is that pricing post­ ponement may hurt the supplier, as we can observe in the (W, L, W) region in Figure 4, (a) and (b). More interestingly, our numerical study uncovers a region of $(\mathsf{W},\mathsf{L},\mathsf{L})$ that is not analytically captured. Specifically, when the retailer inflates the order to cope with the yield risk and uses responsive pricing to transfer the risk to downstream, both the supplier and the consumers may be worse off if the yield loss is both severe and likely; see Figure 4(a). Second, although the analytical result in Proposition $5(\mathrm{D})$ is obtained under the assumption $\alpha\geq9/16,$ , the numerical results shown in Figure 4, (d)–(f) indicate that it is valid for all $\alpha$ . The channel is either Pareto improved or completely unaffected by pricing postponement under a pay-by-delivery contract, and the smaller the potential yield fraction, the more likely that responsive pricing benefits the entire supply chain.  

6.4.1. Practical Implications. We compare Figures 3 and 4 to derive some additional insights. First, pricing postponement is more likely to enhance the overall chan­ nel performance than payment postponement because the (W, W, W) region is much larger in Figure 4. Indeed, when the production is too costly, a pay-by-delivery contract is not able to incentivize the supplier to inflate the production and, therefore, has no effect on the chan­ nel. Second, despite the more frequent positive channel impact, pricing postponement may also result in the most undesirable channel consequence. In fact, the $(\mathsf{W},$ $\scriptstyle{\mathrm{~L,}}$ L) case could occur only in Figure 4, rendering the retailer the only one to be better off. As such, our numeri­ cal studies reveal the contrasting features of the post­ ponement strategies.  

Figure 4. (Color online) Channel Impact of Pricing Postponement   
Notes. (a)–(c) (O): Assume a pay-by-order contract and compare scenarios OR vs. OA. (a) Small $\alpha$ : $\alpha=0.2$ . (b) Medium α: $\alpha=0.4$ . (c) Large α: $\alpha=0.8$ . (d)–(f) (D): Assume a pay-by-delivery contract and compare scenarios DR vs. DA. (d) Small α: $\alpha=0.2$ . (e) Medium $\alpha$ : $\alpha=0.4$ . (f) Large $\alpha$ : $\alpha=0.8$ .  

# 7. Extensions  

# 7.1. Uniform Random Yield  

The two-point distributed random yield in the main model is assumed so that useful insights could be derived with tractable analysis. To show the robustness of our findings, we look into uniform random yield as an extension to our model. Let $Y\sim U[x,1]$ be uniformly dis­ tributed over an interval $[x,1],$ where $x<1$ . The support is chosen to capture the minimum yield guarantee, which is in parallel to $\alpha$ the main model. An important difference that uniform random yield causes to our anal­ ysis is the supplier’s optimal production level $Q^{*}$ under the pay-by-delivery contract. Because the supplier’s expected profit is $\mathbf{E}[w\hat{q}-c Q]$ , where the delivered quan­ tity $\hat{q}=\operatorname*{min}\{Y Q,q\},$ , we maximize the profit function to obtain the optimal solution:  

$$
Q^{*}={\frac{q}{x_{0}}},\quad{\mathrm{where~}}x_{0}:={\sqrt{x^{2}+{\frac{2c(1-x)}{w}}}}\in(x,1).
$$  

Recall that, in the main model where the yield fraction fol­ lows a two-point distribution, the supplier may not inflate the production level under the pay-by-delivery scheme if the cost is too high; however, if it does, then the inflation will provide $100\%$ safeguard against the fractional yield. By contrast, when the yield is uniformly distributed, the supplier always inflates the production when the retailer postpones the payment; however, a full delivery can never be guaranteed because $\hat{q}<q$ whenever $Y<x_{0}$ . Therefore, we emphasize that the yield distribution is critical in our problem, as it has a significant impact on our analysis, as well as the structure of the equilibrium.  

Recognizing the above difference in the supplier’s production quantity with uniformly distributed yield, we apply the same analytical technique to solve for equilib­ rium outcomes for the four scenarios. Because of the continuous yield distribution assumption, the analysis becomes intractable when we solve the supplier’s prob­ lem. Consequently, we resort to numerical studies and derive insights based on observations. In the following, we report our numerical findings and show that the managerial insights and the major takeaways from the main model are robust and generalizable when the yield fraction follows a uniform distribution. (The analytical details, the numerical setup, and the graphical exhibi­ tions are given in Online Appendix D.)  

1. The retailer may already obtain the highest profit postponing neither pricing nor payment. Otherwise, the retailer tends to have higher profit when it uses responsive pricing (i.e., scenarios DR and OR). More­ over, the two postponement strategies can be either substitutes or complements, depending on distribution parameters. In fact, we find the two strategies are more likely to be complements with the uniform yield than with the two-point yield. As such, our numerical study extends the findings in the main model regarding the interplay between the two strategies.  

2. Fixing the pricing strategy, the impact of payment postponement can be overall positive to the channel, although the (W, W, W) region is not large. Moreover, with the uniformly distributed yield, consumers may be worse off under ex ante pricing, whereas the sup­ plier may be worse off under responsive pricing. These results are consistent with what is shown in Figure 3. Fixing the payment strategy, postponing pricing is largely Pareto optimal for the supply chain, especially with the pay-by-delivery scheme. Under a pay-byorder contract, however, there are a large portion of cases where the consumers are worse off, which is a notable difference from Figure 4.  

3. Finally, we remark that the uniform distribution $U[x,1]$ is, in nature, dissimilar to the two-point distri­ bution. As a result, the numerical findings, although qualitatively resembling those for the main model, are still different in some aspects; see more details in Online Appendix D.  

# 7.2. Incorporating Demand Risk  

Given that the focus of our paper is on supply risk miti­ gation by postponement strategies, the main model assumes deterministic demand. However, in many prac­ tical settings, demand could be random as well. There­ fore, in this extension, we bring our model closer to reality by incorporating demand risk. Recall that the deterministic demand in the main model takes the form of $d(p)=a-b p$ . We now assume that the maximum market size $a={\hat{a}}$ is a random variable, independent of the yield fraction $Y$ . Thus, the demand becomes $D(p)=$ $\boldsymbol{\mathrm{max}}\{\hat{a}-b p,0\}$ , which exhibits the risk of having a small market size realization. Note that only the retailer’s optimization problem will be explicitly affected. Specifi cally, the retailer’s revenue function $R(p,q\vert\bar{Y},\hat{a})=$ $p\mathrm{min}\{Y Q,~q,D(p)\},$ , which is influenced by both supply risk and demand risk. To continue focusing on the sup­ ply risk, we assume that demand is realized after pur­ chase and pricing decisions are made. In this way, the two postponement strategies, especially the responsive pricing scheme, are still aiming at mitigating the supply risk, and the results are comparable to those in the main model. Hence, given $(w,Q)$ , the retailer’s optimization problem is  

$$
\left\{\begin{array}{l l}{\operatorname*{max}_{q}\mathrm{~E}_{Y}[\operatorname*{max}_{p}\mathrm{~E}_{\hat{a}}[R(p,q\mid Y,\hat{a})]-T^{k}(w,Q,q)]}\\ {\quad\quad}\\ {\operatorname*{max}_{q,p}\mathrm{~E}_{Y,\hat{a}}[R(p,q\mid Y,\hat{a})-T^{k}(w,Q,q)]\mathrm{~if~}k\in\{O A,D A\}.}\end{array}\right.
$$  

As indicated in the above formulation, even when the retailer adopts responsive pricing, only the yield risk is mitigated. Because the expectation with respect to the demand is taken before the price is optimized, the optimal responsive price $p^{*}=p^{*}(q,w,Q\mid Y).$ , although contingent on $\gamma,$ will still have to absorb the demand risk. Moreover, being convex, the demand function $D(p)$ can spoil the con­ cavity of the retailer’s revenue function, rendering signifi­ cant analytical difficulties. We therefore use a numerical approach to solve for the equilibrium in each scenario and compare the findings to the main model; the details of the analysis and the graphical exhibitions are given in Online Appendix E. Here, we present the relevant obser­ vations and discuss the robustness of our results.  

1. Consider the retailer’s preference toward various scenarios and the interplay between the two postpone­ ment strategies. We observe that the status quo scenario, $\mathrm{OA},$ can already be optimal for the retailer. Moreover, there exists a considerable amount of instances where payment and pricing postponement are strategic comple­ ments, which echoes the key results from the main model. Therefore, these observations suggest that the main take­ aways remain unchanged, even when demand is ran­ dom. However, as illustrated in Online Appendix E, the expectation taken with respect to $\hat{a}$ would have a consid­ erable negative impact on the retailer’s equilibrium profit.  

2. Consider the channel impacts of the postponement strategies. Overall, our observations for the results under demand risk are consistent with the main model; that is, either postponement strategy can be Pareto optimal. How­ ever, there are two major differences for the results in the presence of demand uncertainty. First, the (W, W, W) region becomes much smaller compared to Figures 3 and 4. Second, in every pair of comparisons, there are instances where either consumers or the supplier, or both, are hurt by the retailer’s use of a certain postponement strategy.  

3. Overall, incorporating demand risk into our model does not qualitatively alter the main results from Section 6. However, we do observe that the random demand negatively affects the retailer’s profit, and the use of the postponement strategies does not benefit the channel as much as when demand is deterministic. An important implication is that the demand risk, although directly facing the retailer, has its effect rippled through the sup­ ply chain, and the effectiveness of the (supply-risk-miti­ gating) postponement strategies could be weakened by the demand uncertainty.  

# 7.3. Comparing with an Integrated Supply Chain  

The wholesale price contract in the main model is widely used in practice and commonly assumed in research papers due to its simple and elegant form. However, this contract is known to induce the double-marginalization issue and, therefore, fails to coordinate the supply chain. Because the vertical interaction between the supplier and the retailer is affected by the payment-postponement strategy, would an altered timing structure of the priceonly contract (i.e., the pay-by-delivery scheme) achieve channel coordination? To find out, let us consider a cen­ tralized setting, where the supplier is an internal produc­ tion facility and the retailer is the sales department of the same firm. Under different pricing schemes, we solve for the total profit of such an integrated supply chain and compare it with the decentralized settings under differ­ ent payment schemes.  

Proposition 6. Let $\Pi^{A}a n d\Pi^{R}$ be the equilibrium profits of the integrated supply chain under ex ante and responsive pricing schemes, respectively. Then, for any $0<\alpha,\theta<1$ and production cost $0<c<a\mu/b,$ we have $\mathbf{\bar{\pi}}_{R}^{k}+\pi_{S}^{k}<\Pi^{A}$ for $k\in\{O A,D A\}$ and $\pi_{R}^{k}+\pi_{S}^{\dot{k}}<\Pi^{R}f o r k\in\{\dot{O R},D\check{R}\}$ .  

Proposition 6 shows that, as long as the contract only specifies the unit wholesale price $w$ , postponing the pay­ ment does not coordinate the supply chain. Moreover, this result is irrelevant of the timing of the retail price decision. We remark that, although the price-only con­ tract has been studied in various settings and its co­ ordinating power has been examined under different assumptions, the timing structure of the contract is rela­ tively underexplored. However, because of the uncertain supply, when and how the procurement payment is set­ tled do affect the decisions of the channel members and, thus, should be considered as an important characteristic of the contract. Our findings fill in this gap to some extent. Together with Proposition 4, we show that, both being price-only wholesale contracts, the pay-by-delivery scheme may indeed enhance the channel profit, as compared with the pay-by-order scheme. This is the benefit of payment postponement, but this benefit mostly pertains to mitigating the supply risk. The doublemarginalization issue is still not addressed. As a result, stipulating the timing of the payment in a price-only con­ tract does not eliminate the inefficiency, and the supply chain is not coordinated.  

Lastly, Proposition 6 suggests that a two-part tariff agreement, where the wholesale price is set to be the pro­ duction cost and the retailer makes a fixed transfer pay­ ment to the supplier, can achieve coordination. This is because (1) the supplier does not have any incentive to manipulate the production quantity, and (2) the retailer has incentive to order the same quantity as an integrated firm does to get the first-best profit. To find more sophis ticated coordinating contracts in our setting, one has to cope with two difficulties. First, even though the quan­ tity decision can be coordinated, the price decision is dis torted under responsive pricing. In fact, in a newsvendor setting with price-dependent demand, Cachon (2003) shows that buy-back and quantity-flexibility contracts do not coordinate the channel, and revenue-sharing con­ tract coordinates only under certain conditions. These contracts will run into the same trouble in our setting. Second, with random yield and the pay-by-delivery scheme, either supplier or retailer may inflate the quan­ tity, and their inflation incentive is particularly hard to coordinate (see, e.g., Tang and Kouvelis 2014). Therefore, in scenarios with payment postponement, the key is to coordinate the firms’ quantity (inflation) decisions; for example, the two-part tariff contract mentioned above takes care of this issue.  

# 8. Conclusion  

Firms are facing more risks in their global supply chains, and supply uncertainty is one of the most significant to combat against (Gyorey et al. 2010). Based on a parsimo­ nious bilateral supply chain model, we study the riskmitigating strategies that a retailer may adopt to mitigate the yield risk originating from the upstream production process. On the one hand, the retailer may specify the payby-delivery, instead of pay-by-order, payment scheme to delay the procurement payment until the delivered amount is known. In this way, the retailer makes the sup­ plier bear some of the production yield risk. On the other hand, the retailer may decide the retail price after the yield is realized. Thus, the yield risk is partially transferred to the end-market consumers.  

Emphasizing the notion of postponement, the above strategies are both potentially effective in supply risk mitigation. However, the consequences of their interac­ tion in a decentralized supply chain are not clear and worth investigating. For one thing, the combined effect of using both postponement strategies is not necessarily a simple addition of the individual effects. For another, the upstream supplier may take counteractive actions in response to the retailer’s move, leaving the net result undetermined. Therefore, we study four scenarios, de­ pending on the retailer’s strategy combinations; establish the unique equilibrium for the Stackelberg game in each scenario; and obtain the following findings and relevant managerial insights for practice.  

First, it is important for the retailer to keep in mind that it may never strictly benefit from either postpone­ ment strategy, especially when the production cost is low and the yield is highly likely to suffer from loss. When using the postponement strategies can indeed improve the retailer’s profit, the benefit of pricing post­ ponement is increasing, whereas the benefit of payment postponement is decreasing, in the production cost. Second, contrary to intuition, we uncover a situation where postponing pricing and postponing payment are strategic complements for the retailer. Thus, the use of one strategy can increase the benefit of the other. Lastly, in terms of the channel implications, one important takeaway is that both postponement strategies may be beneficial to everyone along the supply chain. A pay-bydelivery contract has an overall positive impact on the channel when the production cost is low and the poten­ tial yield loss is not large. Responsive pricing may be Pareto optimal when the production cost is high and/or a pay-by-delivery contract is in use. In all, the above results could provide guidance to the retailer when it determines different payment and pricing schemes in a decentralized setting.  

# 拓展  

We conclude by pointing out a few interesting ave­ nues for future research: (1) Other supply chain config­ urations are possible. For example, the retailer may maintain multiple potential suppliers in its supply base to take advantage of diversification. Analyzing different supply chain structures could lead to valuable insights. (2) If more powerful than the retailer, the supplier may be the one who decides payment postponement. Then, we have a grand game where each firm strategically chooses to postpone payment/pricing, which is worth studying in detail. (3) In practice, if the marketing data do not support linear demand, then we need to assume other forms of demand (e.g., multinomial logit), which may give rise to different results and insights.  

# Acknowledgments  

The authors thank the department editor, Professor Kama­ lini Ramdas, the anonymous associate editor, and two anon­ ymous referees for their very helpful and constructive comments, which have led to significant improvements on both the content and the exposition of this study.  

# Endnotes  

1 Source: www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1285785/000119312   
506170786/dex10iiy.htm.   
2 Source: www.theguardian.com/science/2023/feb/13/florida  
orange-juice-record-prices-weather-disease.   
3 Source: contracts.justia.com/companies/alico-inc-6673/contract/   
118585/.   
4 Source: ir.alicoinc.com/all-sec-filings/content/0000003545-19-   
000143/alco-93019x10k.htm.   
5 Source: www.wsj.com/articles/SB1000142405274870465500457511   
3593765269442.  

References   
Anupindi $\scriptstyle\mathrm{\mathrm{~R,~}}$ Akella R (1993) Diversification under supply uncer­ tainty. Management Sci. 66(8):944–963.   
Babich V, Tang CS (2012) Managing opportunistic supplier product adulteration: Deferred payments, inspection, and combined mech­ anisms. Manufacturing Service Oper. Management 14(2):301–314.   
Cachon GP (2003) Supply chain coordination with contracts. Hand­ books Oper. Res. Management Sci. 11:227–339.   
Chen J, Yao D, Zheng S (2001) Optimal replenishment and rework with multiple unreliable supply sources. Oper. Res. 49(3):430–443.   
Chick E, Mamani H, Simchi-Levi D (2008) Supply chain coordina­ tion and influenza vaccination. Oper. Res. 6(56):1493–1506.   
Chod J (2017) Inventory, risk shifting, and trade credit. Management Sci. 63(10):3207–3225.   
Chod J, Rudi N (2005) Resource flexibility with responsive pricing. Oper. Res. 53(3):532–548.   
Chod J, Lyandres E, Yang SA (2019) Trade credit and supplier com­ petition. J. Financial Econom. 131(2):484–505.   
Ciarallo F, Akella R, Morton T (1994) A periodic review, production planning model with uncertain capacity and uncertain demandoptimality of extended myopic policies. Management Sci. 40(3): 320–332.   
Cohen M, Perakis G, Thraves C (2022) Consumer surplus under demand uncertainty. Production Oper. Management 31(2):478–494.   
Dada M, Petruzzi N, Schwarz L (2007) A newsvendor’s procure­ ment problem when suppliers are unreliable. Manufacturing Service Oper. Management 1(9):9–32.   
Dong $\scriptstyle{\mathrm{~L,~}}$ Geng $\mathbf{\boldsymbol{x}},$ Xiao G, Yang N (2022) Procurement strategies with unreliable suppliers under correlated random yields. Manufacturing Service Oper. Management 24(1):179–195.   
Dong $\scriptstyle{\mathrm{~L,}}$ Xiao $G,$ Yang N (2023) Supply diversification under random yield: The impact of price postponement. Prod. Oper. Manag. 32: 1112–1132.   
Etienne XL, Mallory ML, Irwin SH (2017) Estimating the cost of preharvest forward contracting corn and soybeans in Illinois before and after 2007. Agribusiness 33(3):358–377.   
Federgruen A, Yang N (2008) Selecting a portfolio of suppliers under demand and supply risks. Oper. Res. 56(4):916–936.   
Federgruen A, Yang N (2009) Optimal supply diversification under general supply risks. Oper. Res. 57(6):1451–1468.   
Federgruen A, Yang N (2011) Procurement strategies with unreli­ able suppliers. Oper. Res. 59(4):1033–1039.   
Federgruen A, Yang N (2014) Infinite horizon strategies for replenishment systems with a general pool of suppliers. Oper. Res. 62(1):141–159.   
Granot D, Yin S (2008) Price and order postponement in a de­ centralized newsvendor model with multiplicative and pricedependent demand. Oper. Res. 56(1):121–139.   
Grosfeld-Nir A, Gerchak Y (2004) Multiple lot sizing in production to order with random yields: Review of recent advances. Ann. Oper. Res. 1(126):43–69.   
Gyorey T, Jochim M, Norton S (2010) The challenges ahead for sup­ ply chains: McKinsey global survey results. McKinsey Quarterly (November), https:/ www.mckinsey.com/capabilities/operations/ our-insights/the-challenges-ahead-for-supply-chains-mckinseyglobal-survey-results.   
Henig M, Gerchak Y (1990) The structure of periodic review policies in the presence of random yield. Oper. Res. 38(4):634–643.   
Hu B, Kostamis D (2015) Managing supply disruptions when sourc­ ing from reliable and unreliable suppliers. Production Oper. Management 24(5):808–820.   
Kouvelis P (2015) Monsanto company: New production introduc­ tion for seed corn & supply chain challenges. Case Study, Olin Business School, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis.   
Kouvelis P, Zhao W (2012) Financing the newsvendor: Supplier vs. bank, and the structure of optimal trade credit contracts. Oper. Res. 60(3):566–580.   
Kouvelis P, Xiao G, Yang N (2018) On the properties of yield distributions in random yield problems: Conditions, class of distributions and rel­ evant applications. Production Oper. Management 17(7):1291–1302.   
Kouvelis P, Xiao G, Yang N (2021) Role of risk aversion in price postponement under supply random yield. Management Sci. 67(8):4826–4844.   
Li Q, Zheng S (2006) Joint inventory replenishment and pricing con­ trol for systems with uncertain yield and demand. Oper. Res. 54(4):696–705.   
Li T, Sethi S, Zhang J (2017) Mitigating supply uncertainty: The interplay between diversification and pricing. Production Oper. Management 26(3):369–388.   
MacDonald JM, Perry J, Ahearn MC, Banker D, Chambers W, Dimi­ tri C, Key N, et al. (2004) Contracts, markets, and prices: Orga nizing the production and use of agricultural commodities. USDA-ERS Agricultural Economic Report Number 837, U.S. De­ partment of Agriculture, Washington, DC.   
Rui H, Lai G (2015) Sourcing with deferred payment and inspection under supplier product adulteration risk. Production Oper. Man agement 24(6):934–946.   
Scott N (2003) Agribusiness and Commodity Risk: Strategies and Man­ agement (Incisive RWG Ltd., Utrecht, Netherlands).   
Sinofsky S (2019) Pre-announcing as a strategy. Learning by Shipping. Accessed July 1, 2023, https:/ medium.learningbyshipping.com/ preannounce-12c2255cff33.   
Tang C, Yin R (2007) Responsive pricing under supply uncertainty. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 182(1):239–255.   
Tang CS, Yang SA, Wu J (2018) Sourcing from suppliers with finan­ cial constraints and performance risk. Manufacturing Service Oper. Management 20(1):70–84.   
Tang Y, Kouvelis P (2011) Supplier diversification strategies in the present of yield uncertainty and buyer competition. Manufactur­ ing Service Oper. Management 4(13):439–451.   
Tang Y, Kouvelis P (2014) Pay-back-revenue-sharing contract in coordinating supply chains with random yield. Production Oper. Management 23(12):2089–2102.   
Tang Y, Gurnani H, Gupta D (2014) Managing disruptions in decen­ tralized supply chains with endogenous supply reliability. Pro­ duction Oper. Management 7(23):1198–1211.   
Van Mieghem J, Dada M (1999) Price vs. production postponement: Capacity and competition. Management Sci. 45(12):1631–1649.   
Wang Y, Gilland W, Tomlin B (2009) Mitigating supply risk: Dualsourcing or process improvements? Manufacturing Service Oper. Management 3(12):489–510.   
Wang Y, Xiao Y, Yang N (2014) Improving reliability of a shared supplier with competition and spillovers. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 236(2):499–510.   
Yang SA, Birge JR (2018) Trade credit, risk sharing, and inventory financing portfolios. Management Sci. 64(8):3667–3689.   
Yano C, Lee H (1995) Lot sizing with random yields: A review. Oper. Res. 2(43):311–333.  